Okay.
So we're going to start exploring all the details of you momentarily.
But before we get there, I want to give you a sense of what we're trying to accomplish next in our
app.
So I have my main nav component open here.
It's been a while since we've been in this file.
And if I scroll down, you may remember here that we have a piece of data called is logged in and that
reflects whether the user is logged in or authenticated into our app.
And remember, this is not a real life implementation.
It's just an arbitrary thing.
We added where the user clicks a login button, which we have right here, and that flips the component
state to tell it that the user is logged in, which of course makes the profile image appear right here
and also makes the sub nav appear right here.
Now, in a typical real world app, you can expect that the user's logged in status is going to affect
a lot more components around the app, not just the main app.
So let's go with that assumption.
Even though it's not really true in our app, it's a fair one to make in the real world.
So our ultimate goal here will be to move this piece of logic.
The user's logged in state to the View Store.
We don't want this logic to live in one component.
We want it to be in the view store in that global cloud that is floating above our app.
And then we want the main nav component to talk to View X to get that piece of data and utilize it in
this component.
And of course, the advantage of that approach is that other components eventually that care about the
logged in status can also get that piece of information from view.
All right.
So with that said, let's open up our index dogs file in our source store folder.
So right here as our C Store index tags.
And for now, I propose that we delete all of the code in this file just so we can wire up, view X
from scratch and review some of the syntax that is required here and kind of build that up incrementally.
So in this file, we're going to begin by importing a function from view called Create Store.
It is a named export.
So right here on line number one, I'm going to import create store from view X.
Let me in fact blow this up because I think it's going to be a little bit cleaner to read.
Okay.
So the store here that the word here references that collection of data that view X is storing for us.
That global collection of data is what we call the store, right?
The view X entity that we're referencing in technical terms is what we call the store.
So on the very next line, I'm going to create a constant called store and I'm going to assign it the
return value of the create store function.
And what that function is going to do is create a View X store.
Okay.
And this function takes a single argument and it has a JavaScript object that configures the settings
or the configurations for this view X store.
And in a real world app, you're only really going to have one view X store, and there's no real reason
to have more than one.
You're just going to have one central repository of data.
That's what a view store is.
All right.
Now, how do we configure the actual data that this store is storing?
Well, in order to do that, we define a method here in this configuration object called state, and
that's a term we also used earlier.
State is just data that changes over time.
Of course, the difference between this and component state is that this is global data, this is high
level data.
But from an analogous perspective, you can think of state almost like the data property in a component.
It's the same idea.
It's just some kind of information that's changing over time.
So State is going to be a method that returns a JavaScript object, and that JavaScript object represents
our view X Store state.
It's basically the exact same syntax we use when we define a data method within a component, but we
are defining it for the view store that is independent and separate right now from any component interact.
All right.
So what I'm going to do here is I'm going to define the exact same property I have in May.
Now I'm going to call it is logged in and I'm going to give it an initial value of false.
Right.
We're going to have this duplicate design right now and eventually we're going to replace that property
in our main NAV component with a reference to this property in our view X Store.
So I'm going to call this is logged in and I'm going to set it to false.
And then remember we are importing this store in our main digest file and configuring it.
So we do have to make sure we export it here.
So I'm going to export default the store that we create right here in this file.
Right.
And that's, I think, a good place to start.
The key takeaways from this lesson is we create a store using the create store function.
We pass it a JavaScript object to configure how it works.
There's many different properties and methods in this object, which we'll talk about over the course
of the next couple of sections.
But the primary one is the state method which specifies the starting state or the core data of the view
store.
So right now our View Store State has one property is logged in and it's going to initialize with an
initial value of false.
And again, you can think of this as analogous to the data in a component.
So what this is, for example, for me now this section right here, it's a very similar idea when it
comes to.
The state method in a store.
It's just more global, higher level, more important, above any individual component.
That's exactly what we're setting up here.
And of course, in the very next lesson, we're going to see how we can change this state.